---
task_categories:
- text-classification
languages:
- en
license: TBD (apache-2.0 ? GPL)
---

# Synthetic Text Classification Dataset
- **Dataset type**: Synthetic  
- **Number of samples**: 50,000  
- **Task**: Text Classification  
- **Domain**: Multi-label classification of text into `false`, `partially true`, `mostly true`, and `true` categories.


## Dataset Description
This dataset was generated to train and evaluate models on the task of text classification according to misinformation. Synthetic data generation was carried out by a custom designed pipeline using the following LLMs:
- [Llama 3.1 8B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct)
- [Gemma 2 9B](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2-9b-it)
- [Mixtral 8x7B](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1)

### Structure
The dataset contains the following splits:
- **train**: 45,000 examples
- **validation**: 5,000 examples

Each sample contains:
- **output**: The synthetic text generated by the LLM (string).
- **reasoning**: The LLM reasoning for generating the text (string). 
- **label**: The classification label (category: `false`, `partially true`, `mostly true`, and `true`).
- **model**: The model used to generate the sample (string).

## Description of labels
- **false**: Completely untrue or fabricated information.
- **partially true**: Contains some truth but is misleading or lacks important context.
- **mostly true**: Largely accurate but may have minor inaccuracies or omissions.
- **true**: Entirely accurate and factual information.

## Usage
```python
from datasets import load_dataset
dataset = load_dataset("Intel/polite-guard-synthetic")
```

## Disclaimer
Misinformation Guard has been trained and validated on a limited set 
of synthetically generated data. Accuracy metrics cannot be guaranteed 
outside these narrow use cases, and therefore this tool should be 
validated within the specific context of use for which it might be deployed. 
This tool is not intended to be used to evaluate employee performance. 
This tool is not sufficient to prevent harm in many contexts, and additional
tools and techniques should be employed in any sensitive use case where 
misinformation may cause harm to individuals, communities, or society.
